Discover 9.1.0 updates (#1905)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/discover/discover-get-started.md

![Search field in Discover](/explore-analyze/images/kibana-discover-search-field.png "")

:::{note}
Free text searches that don't specify a field may not return expected results depending on how the [`index.query.default_field` index setting](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/index-modules.md#index-query-default-field) is configured for the indices matching the current data view.

> :::

Author: @ninoslavmiskovic does this make sense regarding https://github.com/elastic/enhancements/issues/18024?

You can use **Discover** with the Elasticsearch Query Language, ES|QL. When using ES|QL, you don’t have to select a data view. It’s your query that determines the data to explore and display in Discover.

You can switch to the ES|QL mode of Discover from the application menu bar.
If you've entered a KQL or Lucene query in the default mode of Discover, it automatically converts to ES|QL.

Note that in ES|QL mode, the **Documents** tab is named **Results**.

:::{important}

> {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1` When an ES|QL query times out, partial results that are available are shown. The timeout is defined by the `search:timeout` advanced setting, which is set to 10 mins by default. In serverless projects, this advanced setting is not customizable and the timeout is set to 10 minutes.

Author: ```suggestion
{applies_to}`stack: ga 9.1` When an ES|QL query times out, partial results that are available are shown. The timeout is defined by the `search:timeout` advanced setting, which is set to 10 minutes (600000 ms) by default. In serverless projects, this advanced setting is not customizable and the timeout is set to 10 minutes.
```
